### CS7IS3 Assignment 2: Lucene Searcher for Financial Times, Federal Register, ForeignBroadcast Information Service and Los Angeles Times Datasets
----
This Project is aimed at providing an efficient search engine with a Precision of **0.348** for **Robust04 dataset** built using Java Maven application. Apache Lucene is a well know Search Engine used for indexing the documents, searching for the releavant results with efficient analysers. 
This Java Search Engine is built using Maven Framework with Lucene Dependencies like ***Lucene-Core, Lucene-Analysers, Lucene-QueryParser and Lucene-Queries and open-nlp libraries.***

### Steps to be followed to execute the Lucene Search Engine code and evaluate the results:
----

- The Lucene Search Engine code and CranField datasets are available at ***src*** Folder inside ***IR*** directory.

- The Index files of cranfields are available at ***index*** Folder under ***IR*** directory. 

- The Lucene search engine code is built by first executing the below command to clean the Maven project and then install maven command as shown below;
```sh
mvn clean install
mvn exec:java -Dexec.mainClass="com.lucene.core.CranMain"
```
### Instructions to get Project's output
----
To evaluate the output of the search engine an automated Evaluation tool has been installed in the AWS EC2 instance called ***trec_eval-9.0.7*** and the output generated by executing the Java code is compared with the standard QRelevance file using this tool. The results can be verified by the output file generated from the trec_eval execution. The Results of the trec_eval output file ***outputs.txt*** is as shown below with ***Mean Precision of 0.348***. The ***search_output.txt*** result file is generated in the ***IR*** directory when the main program in the src folder is executed by following all the instructed steps in order.

### Todos
----
 - Improve the Precision by developing custom analyzers and using different similarites.

### License
----
Contributions are welcomed.
